.TH HAPIDRY 1
.SH NAME
hapidry \- command line client for diary.ru
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hapidry
<action>
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hapidry
(haskell api diary) is a command line client for diary.ru api with interface in unix spirit. It supports most common actions available via API, and designed to make easy working with
diary using powerfull unix utils.

to start use it create .hapidry file in your home dir, and add lines
.RS
.nf
diaryusername="username"
password="password"
.RE
.fi


.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.BI -c,\ --config \ config_path 
use non defautl hapidry config.
.TP
.BI -u,\ --user \ diaryusername
overrides diary user login.
.TP
.BI -p,\ --password \ password
overrides password for selected user.
.TP
.BI -h,\ --help
show genaral hapidry help.
.TP
.BI -v,\ --version
show hapidry version and git revision commit.




.
.SH Options for \fInotify\f
get notification data
.
.TP
.BI -h,\ --help
show help for hapidry notify.

.TP
.BI -q,\ --quiet
show notifications only if there are more then 0 events.

.TP
.BI -A,\ --all
show notifications for all event types.

.TP
.BI -U,\ --umail
show notifications for umails.

.TP
.BI -D,\ --discussion
show notifications for discussions.

.TP
.BI -C,\ --comment
show notifications for comments in your diary.


.
.SH Options for \fIpost\f
create new post, It will open yout $EDITOR to write it if no other option is used.
.
.TP
.BI -h,\ --help
show help for hapidry post.

.TP
.BI -m,\ --message \ message
specify text to post

.TP
.BI -t,\ --title \ title
specify title to your post

.TP
.BI -f,\ --file \ file
specify path to file with prepared post

.TP
.BI -p,\ --pipe
get text for message from stdin

.TP
.BI -w,\ --whitelist
if set your post will be availavle only for your whitelist

.TP
.BI -d,\ --draft
save post as draft if set

.TP
.BI -t,\ --tags \ tags
add tags to the post. You cane sepaeate tags with ; 

.TP
.BI --music \ music
add info about music you have been listening while you were writing your post.

.TP
.BI --mood \ mood
add info about your current mood


.
.SH Options for \fIcomment\f
create new comment, It will open yout $EDITOR to write it if no other option is used.
.
.TP
.BI -h,\ --help
show help for hapidry comment.

.TP
.BI -m,\ --message \ message
specify comment text

.TP
.BI -f,\ --file \ file
specify path to file with prepared text

.TP
.BI -p,\ --pipe
get text for message from stdin


.
.SH Options for \fIsend\f
write new umail, It will open yout $EDITOR to write it if no other option is used.
.
.TP
.BI -h,\ --help
show help for hapidry send.

.TP
.BI -m,\ --message \ message
specify umail text

.TP
.BI -t,\ --title \ title
specify title to your umail

.TP
.BI -f,\ --file \ file
specify path to file with prepared text

.TP
.BI -p,\ --pipe
get text for message from stdin

.
.SH Options for \fIread\f
read blogs or comments to post, You can use as many blogs-argumants as you want or a post id if you want to read comments. You can use pipe to w3m to render html.
.
.TP
.BI -r,\ --reverse 
use reverse order for posts sorted by date.

.TP
.BI -h,\ --help
show help for hapidry read.


.
.SH Options for \fIumail\f
read your umails. You can use pipe to w3m to render html.

.TP
.BI -h,\ --help
show help for hapidry umail.

.TP
.BI -f,\ --folder \ folder
choose folder output, input (default) or deleted.

.
.TP
.BI -r,\ --reverse 
use reverse order for umails sorted by date.




.SH AUTHOR
.
Written by capgelka <ldyach@yandex.ru>.
.
.SH COPYRIGHT

.br
This is Free Software; this software is licensed under the GPL version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


.SH BUGS

.br
.
.SH Reporing Bugs
You can report bugs to the githgub issue tracker (https://github.com/capgelka/hapidry/issues/new). Fill free to open an issue if something is unclear for you.



.
.SH SEE ALSO
.
.BR curl (1), w3m (1).
